so at the end of the last video we
created troll class which if you recall
was a subclass of enemy at the moment
it's not doing anything useful as you
saw we could just as easily use an enemy
instead and get exactly the same result
so inspired by his brothers fine example
ugs game or has been going to the gym and
working out in fact he's still a bit of
a trend and now all the trolls have
been toughened up so every trolls that
our adventurers encounter in this game
will now take 23 points of damage now
because they're mortal only have one
life so there's no need to specify
either value when we create them what we
need to do is initialize the troll
instances with just a name so that we
can tell them apart the hit points and
lives will be the same for every troll
that we create so going back to our
enemy class where our trolls are defined
at the moment we just got pass in their so
we're going to change that we're going
to actually delete that and then we're
going to come down here we're going to
add our init....
....
...
so the hit points and lives will be the same
for every troll we create the name the
instance rather is just going to have a
name and that's why we're passing it as
a parameter to the constructor to the
init method the underscore underscore init
__ which all here
refer to as init
alright so let's try running this and
see what happens
alright so the error we're getting here
on line 3 is missing one required
positional arguments name
we've got an error running this code and
if you think about it the reason is
quite clear
that's because we need to pass an
argument to the troll constructor when
we're creating it so i'm going to do is
come up here to line 3 and change this
so it's got troll and we're going to
put the name in there pug so let's run
that
this time we've actually got an error on
line four and we got one below as well
which we won't worry about for now but
the call to print on line we are relying on
the string method that we added to the
enemy class that's actually getting an
error here on line 4 and also down
here on line 18 in the enemy class when
we tried and that's what we try to
access the attributes of our troll
instance now by the way when reading
these stack traces that python
produces i actually like to read them
from the bottom up
I think they make more sense that way so
starting at the bottom here our
code raise an attribute
error because our troll object has no
attribute name reading upwards the error
happened at line 18 in enemypy
in the string method and that's
where we were trying to access the
attributes to format them into the
string that we want to print and that
was called right here on line 4 in main
which is why we've got this other error
showing that's obviously the
print statement so what's actually
happened here so why is our troll lost all
the attributes that it just had in the
previous video well the reason is we
added the init method to the troll class
and when we did that Python longer points the
enemy classes and init method so it runs the
init method in our troll class instead so
if the enemy's init method doesn't run
then the attributes don't gets set
so what we actually need to do here is
call the init method of the superclass
enemy inside our trolls init method now
there's a few ways to do this and i'll
leave the one I recommend in python 3 to
last so we'll go back to our enemy class
and down here to troll now firstly we
can actually prefix the call to init
with the name of the superclass so we
can do something like get rid of the
pass...
....
...
but that would still get an error
because we've got to these other lines
here on lines six and nine got
multiple parameters we're passing the
hit points or both the hit points and the
number of lives so let's actually fix
those first so their just the names
they're just one parameter just to see
what happens if you run this now the
program runs and all our trolls you
can see now have 23 hitpoints well
actually going to say the all do but
urgh doesn't that's because we're using the
enemy class here instead of troll but if I change
that to troll run that again we see now
that they all do have one life and 23 hit points
so if they all have different
names so that we can tell them apart
although telling one troll from another
is a specialized skill it won't be
covering that in the course
alright so let's go back to the trolll
class enemy.py and lets have a look at
what we did here so we created an init
method for our troll class and when we did
that the init method of enemy is no
longer called you could say that the
trolls init method had shadowed init
method in its superclass so to get a
around that and make sure that class
attributes are initialized we called the
enemy superclass init method that's the
call on line 24 by prefixing the method name with the class name now its imporant
that we provide the correct number of
parameters but because the enemy init
method has default values we could have
left off one or more of the parameters
out here this ones here
you won't always want to provide default
values in your class methods so it's
important to remember that we are
calling the superclass init method
here and it needs 4 argument's
now our trolls init method only takes two
arguments so we should provide values
for the remaining two alright so that's
one way to do it and that would be the
only way available in python 2 now in
python three we can use the super
method instead and if you want to cope
with multiple inheritance you must use
super
instead of specifying the base class
name so let's do that so i'm going to
change this enemy part here delete that
out we're going to put...
...
....let's just run that to make sure it
still works it still works now syntax
does make it a little bit hard to read
but what we're basically doing is passing the
name of our class troll and the current
instance self to super and then we're
using that to call the init method of
the base class now when you're using
super inside of class instance there's a
more readable shorthand way of writing
unfortunately and we can do away with
this troll and self in the parentheses
just change it so it's got super with
the parentheses dot than the __
init and that would be the
way that I suggest you normally use it
when calling methods in the superclass
and it does it the identical thing to
what we had previously and I will just undo
that take a copy of that line and cut
that out
fix it so it's doing the same thing as
the commented out line on line 24
but the compiler knows the type troll
and the instant self so there's really
no need to specify them in the super
call
ok so now our trolls behave differently to a
basic enemy when we create a new troll
we just give him or her a name and hit
points are live are automatically set for
us now subclasses can have additional
attributes to extend their behavior and
allow them to do things that their base
class doesn't do so lets demonstrate
that by giving our trolls a grunt method
will come down here
and do...
....
...
alright so that's the grunt method added
to the troll class so let's get our
trolls to grunt by adding a bit more
code in the main py file....
...
....
....the
troubles with trolls is that once you set
one off that you'll have to join in so
let's go ahead and actually add the code
for the others so we'll do another troll....
....
....and then run that me
pug pug stop stomping me ugh ughs
stomp you stomp you then me urg urgh
so about now a wise adventure might be
decided that it's time to leave so
getting back to our troll sub class
it can now do things that a basic
enemy cant and if we try and get an
enemy instance to grant them then will get an
error so just to demonstrate that
....
...
...and if you try to run that not
surprising we get an error enemy object
has no attribute grunt we just highlight
that with the mouse unresolved
attribute reference grunt for class enemy
which again isn't surprising because it
hasn't
the enemy class hasn't got a grunt
method
ok so as well as adding extra behavior
to our subclasses we can now also change
the behavior of methods that exists in
the superclass to see how to do that
we're going to start off by creating a
new class but let's start working on
that in the next video